docs: add annotation resources (#916)
Clinical-Genomics/BALSAMIC: docs/balsamic_annotation.rst

***********************************

> BALSAMIC Annotation Resources

Reviewer: @ashwini06 do we have a link added in Balsamic doc for ``ensembl-vep`` and ``vcfanno``?

Reviewer 2: @keyvanelhami : We have links for each balsamic tool in resources for eg: https://balsamic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/bioinfo_softwares.html#ensembl-vep https://balsamic.readthedocs.io/en/latest/bioinfo_softwares.html#vcfanno. Do you mean this links or something else?

Author: I checked, the information is there.

***********************************

> BALSAMIC annotates somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) using ``ensembl-vep`` and ``vcfanno``. Somatic structural variants (SVs), somatic copy-number variants (CNVs) and germline single nucleotide variants are annotated using only ``ensembl-vep``. All SVs and CNVs are merged using ``SVDB`` before annotation for `Target Genome Analysis (TGA)` or `Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS)` analyses types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
BALSAMIC annotates somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) using ``ensembl-vep`` and ``vcfanno``. Somatic structural variants (SVs), somatic copy-number variants (CNVs) and germline single nucleotide variants are annotated using only ``ensembl-vep``. All SVs and CNVs are merged using ``SVDB`` before annotating for `Target Genome Analysis (TGA)` or `Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS)` analyses.
```

`BALSAMIC` adds the following annotation from `gnomAD` database using ``vcfanno``.

.. list-table:: gnomAD
   :widths: 50 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - VCF tag
     - description
   * - GNOMADAF_popmax
     - maximum allele frequency across populations
   * - GNOMADAF
     - fraction of the reads supporting the alternate allele, allelic frequency

`BALSAMIC` adds the following annotation from `ClinVar` database using ``vcfanno``.

.. list-table:: ClinVar
   :widths: 50 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - VCF tag
     - description
   * - CLNACC

>      - calculated by self of overlapping values

Reviewer: A bit unclear for me what this really means.

   * - CLNREVSTAT
     - ClinVar review status for the Variation ID
   * - CLNSIG
     - Clinical significance for this single variant
   * - CLNVCSO
     - Sequence Ontology id for variant type
   * - CLNVC
     - Variant type
   * - ORIGIN
     - Allele origin

The values for `ORIGIN` are described below:

.. list-table:: ORIGIN
   :widths: 25 25
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Value
     - Annotation
   * - 0
     - unknown
   * - 1
     - germline
   * - 2
     - somatic
   * - 4
     - inherited
   * - 8
     - paternal
   * - 16
     - maternal
   * - 32
     - *de-novo*
   * - 64
     - biparental
   * - 128
     - uniparental
   * - 256
     - not-tested
   * - 512
     - tested-inconclusive
   * - 1073741824
     - other

`BALSAMIC` uses `ensembl-vep` to add the following annotation from `COSMIC` database.

.. list-table:: COSMIC
   :widths: 50 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - VCF tag
     - description
   * - COSMIC_CDS
     - CDS annotation
   * - COSMIC_GENE
     - gene name
   * - COSMIC_STRAND
     - strand
   * - COSMIC_CNT

>      - number of samples with this mutation

Reviewer: nr of samples from where? The cosmic database?

Author: Yes.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this description will make it more clear `number of samples having this somatic mutation in the COSMIC database`

Reviewer: I agree with Ashwini

   * - COSMIC_AA
     - peptide annotation

> Where relevant, `BALSAMIC` uses `ensembl-vep` to annotate somatic and germline SNVs and somatic SVs/CNVs from `1000genomes (phase3)`, `ClinVar`, `ESP, HGMD-PUBLIC`, `dbSNP`, `gencode`, `gnomAD`, `polyphen`, `refseq`, and `sift` databases.

Reviewer: Please clarify "where relevant". When exactly will Balsamic apply this annotation?

Author: It refers to both, a variant or variant type.
